=head1 NAME

B<bfr>, B<bfp> - nonblocking 8-bit-clean pipe buffer

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bfr> [B<-v>[B<v>]] [B<-t>I<0>] [B<-T>I<0>] [B<-b>I<100>] [B<-p><I<arg>>]  [B<-m>I<0>]
	[B<-T>I<90>] [B<-C>I<0>] [<I<input file or ->> ...]

B<bfp> [B<-v>[B<v>]] [B<-t>I<0>] [B<-T>I<0>] [B<-b>I<100>] [B<-p><I<arg>>]  [B<-m>I<0>]
	[B<-T>I<90>] [B<-s>I<44100>] [B<-S>[I<y>|I<n>]] [B<-c>I<2>] [B<-B>I<2>]	 [B<-C>I<0>]
	[<I<input file or ->> ...]

[see OPTIONS for the --long equivelants to these]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<bfr>'s purpose is to buffer data.  (I hope this is obvious. =))  It 
buffers from its standard input and/or a list of files of your choosing, and 
allows this data to flow to its standard output at whatever rate that end
can handle.  Its useful for any situation in which its beneficial to have
I/O occur in a detached yet smooth fashion... possible applications:

=over 2

=item

- CD burning.  A user in Spain was using this in front of cdrecord,
apparently the CPU couldn't keep up with the 8x burner, so 30 megs (cdrecord's
limit) wasn't enough.

=item

- Backups.  B<bfr> can be configured to release its data in large chunks, 
rather than small flowing increments, which reduces tape seek.  B<bfr> also
has a speedcap option, which ensures B<bfr> will never output more than a 
certain amount (which you specify) of data per second.  This makes it useful
for network backups without saturating your backbone or T1.

=item

- Multimedia.  Since B<bfr> does its best to yield data to its output at 
whatever pace the other side can handle (essentially keeping the output stuffed
full), it reduces skips.  This helps both movies (the pr0n must go on!) and audio
(ditto mp3!).  The B<bfp> program, included in this package, is an extension to 
B<bfr> whose primary purpose is to aid skipless audio playback, by properly
configuring and writing to /dev/dsp.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 2

=item

B<-h> | B<--help>

=over 2

=item

display a (hopefully) helpful message.

=back

=item

B<-v> | B<--verbose>

=over 2

=item

enable verbosity (use twice for pedantic verbosity)

=back

=item

B<-p> | B<--progress> (*)

=over 2

=item

Enables "progress mode", with an optional arg specifying how to display the 
data. The optional arg should take the form of a letter and another part... 
the letter being "k", "b", "m" or "p", specifying whether B<bfr> filledness 
should be displayed in Kilobytes, bytes, megabytes or as a percentage.  The 
second, if a number, should be the multiplier by which throughput is measured.
Otherwise, it may be "CD" for CD data (150K/sec) or "CA" for CD audio 
(176K/sec).  If either is omitted, they default is kilobytes and 1k, 
respectively.  Typical values: "k1k", to monitor data at the kilobyte level,
and "pCD" and "pCA" to show meaningful values for CD data and CD audio (and
total buffer usage as a percentage) , respectively.  The default is "k1k" for
bfr, "pCA" for bfp.

=back

=item

B<-m> | B<--minimum> (*)

=over 2

=item

Set the amount of buffer to reach before output begins (to ensure a full 
stream even at start).  The default is 10%.

=back

=item

B<-i> | B<--initial> (*)

=over 2

=item

Initial is a special case of --minimum, which takes effect only for initial
prebuffering before output starts the first time.  If unspecified, it defaults
to whatever --minimum is set to.

=back

=item

B<-t> | B<--timeout> (*)

=over 2

=item

Time, in seconds, to wait before aborting if both input and output are locked.
A value of 0 means it will wait forever.  The default is 0.

=back

=item

B<-T> | B<--throttle> (*)

=over 2

=item

After filling the buffer, B<bfr> will allow the level of onhand data to go 
down to this amount before accepting more input.  The default is 98%.

=back

=item

B<-b> | B<--buffersize> (*)

=over 2

=item

Full size of memory buffer.  The default is 5m.

=back

=item

B<-C> | B<--speedcap> (*)

=over 2

=item

If set to a non-zero value, B<bfr> will allow only this many bytes to be 
output per second.

=back

=head2 BUFPLAY SPECIFIC OPTIONS

=item

B<-s> | B<--speed>

=over 2

=item

Sound samples per second.  The default is 44100.

=back

=item

B<-S> | B<--signed>

=over 2

=item

Is the sound data signed (y) or unsigned (n)?  The default is y.

=back

=item

B<-c> | B<--channels>

=over 2

=item

Number of channels (1 = mono, 2 = stereo).  The default is 2.

=back

=item

B<-B> | B<--bytes>

=over 2

=item

Bytes per sound sample (1=8bit, 2=16bit).  The default is 2 (16bit).

=back

=head2 DEBUG SPECIFIC OPTIONS

=item

B<-d> | B<--debug>

=over 2

=item

enable debugging - only valid for the bfrdebug and bfpdebug executables,
not built or in dist packages by default.

=back

=back

=head1 NOTES

Options marked with a "(*)" can take their argument in simpler notation:
You can use letters 'k' and 'm' can be used to specify kilobytes and 
megabytes. Decimals are not allowed, use '6500k' instead of '6.5M'.  '1k' 
means 1024, and '1m' means 1048576.  '80%' means, literally, 80 percent
of buffersize.  Percentages are mostly useful for the various threshold
settings - using it with --buffersize or --timeout is a bit silly.

Full list of qualifiers:

=over 2

=item

t - 1000 (1 thousand)

=item

K or k - 1024 (1 kilobyte)

=item

M - 1000000 (1 million)

=item

m - 1048576 (1 megabyte)

=item

b - 1000000000 (1 billion (either you're insane, or I want your hardware))

=item

G or g - 1073741824 (1 gigabyte (either you're insane, or I want your hardware))

=back

=head1 BUGS

If you find an inconsistency, whether its an unexpected or undocumented
"feature" or something missing, please let me know!

=head1 THANKS

First of all, thank you for using it. =)

Thanks also to the various people who have helped me at various stages of the 
way, through ideas, notes, suggestions, bugfixes and death threats, including
but not  limited to: miponme, Samuli Karkkainen, Scott Gifford, Sam Phillips,
Andreas Metzler, Arnd Bergmann, Rob Ekl

=head1 AUTHOR

Mark Glines <mark@glines.org>

http://www.glines.org/software/bfr.html

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bag>, L<dog>
